# Abstract
Finite resources and climate issues have necessitated the transition to the circular economy model. Due to the rapid increase in the production of municipal solid waste worldwide, the EU has set new targets for more efficient recycling. Typically, municipal waste is a fairly complex stream of solid materials comprising metal, wood, plastic, glass, construction and demolition materials, etc. The effective sorting of materials is a critical requirement for successful recycling and therefore the research community has now turned to automated sorting techniques to modernize and digitize the recycling process, where sensors are used to detect recyclable materials in the waste in order to develop autonomous systems for their sorting.
In the context of this thesis, an algorithm based on deep learning techniques was developed in a laboratory industrial environment, in order to create an automated system for the separation of wood waste. The training of the model was performed on data received from two multispectral sensors and an industrial camera. In this way it was possible to identify, characterize and categorize different types of wood, as well as to separate them from other waste based on their composition. Then followed, the reverse process of augmenting the images collected to check whether an improvement in the accuracy of our model was possible, using the existing data. In the end, a research on the spectral bands was implemented, in the standards of feature selection, aiming to study the impact of a lower-level equipment and consequently the possibility of a wider usage of the generated model.

**Keywords:** - Wood Waste, Circular Economy, Artificial Intelligence, Convolutional Neural Network, Multispectral Imaging.
